---
title: Virtual Flow Meter, VFM
date: 2020-04-26T23:49:16.749Z
description: Virtual Flow Metering, VFM
type: case
---
Multiphase flowrate measurements of oil, gas, and water play an important role in production optimization, rate allocation and reservoir management.  To measure flow rates from each producing well is today not scalable in the industry as it is expensive to install and maintain by installing physical flow measurement devices.  

Virtual Flow Metering (VFM) from Turbulent Flux is accurate and field scalable cloud native software that estimate oil, gas and water flowrates produced from wells without measuring them directly. The method uses existing sensor data from the field, such as pressure and temperature measurements as well as choke position, to estimate the flowrates. The technology uses our in-house developed hybrid approach that accommodate the transient Turbulent Flux multiphase simulator and Machine Learning algoritmes in an optimum way.  The technology is self-maintained by unique auto-calibration routines so it will output accurate results at any point in time.  It can be fully integrated in existing dashboards and system architechtures with an open REST API.

The VFM can be expanded to also include virtual shut-in/start-up or ramp-down/ramp-up of well production. 

Turbulent Flux has delivered and long-term field proven multiple VFM systems.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jVXCxeBNCIU" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>